hey everyone Darren here welcome to part
10 of the tales of retrospective and
today I'll be reviewing the game that
secured the Tales series future in the
western video game world Tales of Graces
was produced by Dan Cobin Daiya once
again developed by their tales studio it
originally released in Japan December
2nd 2010 for the Nintendo Wii the game
was later ported to the PlayStation 3
and called Tales of Graces f the F
meeting future as an extra 10 hour
epilogue that takes place after the main
game was added this sport job also
included better visuals and various
small extras but after the disappointing
North American sales of the previous few
Tales games Namco Bandai's unsure
whether or not the series of the future
outside of Japan at this crucial point
Namco Bandai silent if the tale series
one last chance in the western video
game market eventually Tales of Graces f
release on March 13 2012 in North
America and luckily for Tales fans and
JRPG fans alike the game was a
commercial success and helped secure a
future for the Tales series in the
Western world but as tails graces F
actually a good game
they had a mixed critical reception and
the game may have only swoll the name
alone well let's find out Tales of
Graces f begins during the childhood of
our protagonist as Belle lot and his
misadventures with his friends and
family this entire childhood story arc
is incredibly slow-paced as a meant to
give various party members of backstory
and I can appreciate that but it's
borderline boring luckily it only lasts
for a couple hours and can be skipped on
future playthroughs the real story of
the game commences many years after the
events of a spells childhood it begins
this graduation for the knight Academy
from here the plot mainly centers around
reconnecting as both his childhood
friends and finding both the courage and
strength required to protect those he
cherishes yes the story is kind of bland
and generic but it isn't terrible
luckily the main cast of characters
outshine their stale plot and are very
engaging to watch and learn more about
sadly the cast for Graces f isn't the
most memorable and made them appear to
be two-dimensional characters at best
but thanks to many meaningful moments
and hilarious skits that become quite
likable and are easy to relate with
Tales of Graces f has many similarities
to tales of Eternia as a bland story
good although not great characters but
standing combat system that makes up for
the rest of the game is lacking Tales of
Graces F's combat system maybe my
favorite scene in any action RPG but
it's a bit of a radical departure from
the familiar system seeing many other
North American Tales releases but it's a
welcome change of pace and absolute
blast to play one of the main changes
seeing this new battle system is that
there's no TP that's right tech points
are replaced by CC and the amount of CC
a character possesses determines how
many simultaneous actions that character
may take these actions include two
different types of arts dodging and
running around in 3d because of this
change there are no longer any ordinary
attacks instead every character has
eight arts that probably consist of
physical attacks and be arts which
functions simulator magic and arts from
previous games this change in how
attacks are executed me that combos are
easier to pull off but difficult to
maintain and the spousal system has a
greater emphasis on dodging as a
well-timed dodge can grant a temporary
boost in CC all in all this new battle
system is incredibly engaging can be
playing for hours on end there were many
times I had purposely grind just a fight
for the sake of fighting that's how much
fun this game is the battle system isn't
the only gameplay system that has
changed leveling up is done in a
different fashion as well titles
actually have uses that affect gameplay
they are earned through a variety of
means and grants certain buffs and the
abilities to use certain arts upon
earning a certain amount of experience
you earn ranks in the title after
mashing a title you can permanently keep
the arts that title had this title the
system proved really addicting and made
me want to earn all the titles and
attempt to master them all another
change to the gameplay so there's no
longer an overworld
however unlike Donna the new world the
player must travel across various fields
and many dungeons to get from
destination to destination although it
may not be what I'd prefer I think this
change is refreshing although it can be
annoyed to be forced to travel for long
periods of time luckily there is a fast
travel system as in locked later in the
game but that's not all that's changed
another is the increased emphasis of
alchemy alchemy and item synthesis has
been present the series since abyss and
was heavily featured in Vesperia but
it's truly vital in Tales of Graces f as
all the cooking items synthesis weapon
and armor forging / upgrading are done
through the Elath mixer each of the
above actions require a certain amount
of Elath which can be
found in both chess and purchasing shops
and there are many benefits to using the
crafty and alchemy systems throughout
the game as the game offers mazes
strongest weapons and armors exclusively
through creating them there are also
many beneficial effects like stat buffs
and healing that can occur in mid-battle
if you set them to occur in the elf
mixer before hand and before I forget to
mention the game's multiplayer works
really well
Tales of Graces f may be one of the best
Tales games to play with friends as it
may be apparent at this point tails the
graces F expands and changes many
pre-existing systems which ultimately
make for an engaging experience but not
every change is for the better due to
the lack of an overworld there isn't any
real freedom or exploration grace as f
as many paths can't be explored until
certain points the narrative are reached
you're essentially traveling from city
to dungeon to city and for some this
linearity may hamper their experience
personally it didn't bother me too much
but there were moments when I yearned
for more freedom but at this point I
think I've talked enough about the
gameplay let's talk about the graphics
the visuals and graces F's are standard
for the PlayStation 3 if a little subpar
but you do have to remember this was
originally a Wii game and considering
that looks pretty good models aren't
overly detailed but everything animates
really smoothly and more importantly
there's absolutely no slowdown or any
true technical hiccups well aside from
the terrible non-existing lip-syncing
wait as well the menus look absolutely
gorgeous I don't know if it's just the
visuals for them or their design but I
really enjoyed navigating through the
menus it made using the Elath mix are a
lot more pleasant the game also features
series composer more toys Sakuraba and
Hibiki Yoma but sadly this isn't their
best work almost the entire soundtrack
is forgettable save for a theme or two
but overall this is an underwhelming
effort especially since I know these
composers are capable of much more as
for the rest of the audio the sound
effects to use in battle are very
fitting and reflect how powerful certain
attacks can be the voice acting in the
game is great with some really solid
performances for most the main cast
although Sophie's monotone can take a
while to adjust to overall the game's
audio is good but many of the songs in
the game are lacking at the end of the
day Tales of Graces f isn't a perfect
Tales game it may not even be better
than the games that preceded it but I
believe the combat system alone warrants
a play through this game regardless of
how you feel about the story or
characters I think the gameplay will
hold your interest in this lengthy
adventure the game is quite long
including the epilogue my final playtime
is over 70 hours that did also include
several side quests and watching all the
games skits which there is a lot of
Tales of Graces f is also becoming
rather cheap now consume your at least a
bit over a year ago and it usually goes
around the 20 to $30 mark in the end I
hope all fans and JRPG fans alike give
this game a try as it deserves more
praise and recognition for what it has
accomplished without Tales of Graces f
we may have never seen such tales like
tales of Xillia and ninokuni released in
North America speaking of Xillia we are
nearing the end of the tales of
retrospective with tales of Xillia being
the final installment until tales of
Xillia 2 releases in the West at some
point in 2014 well stay tuned for part
11 as I review the layest Tales game II
released in North America til next time